## "100 Steps to Further Enlightenment"
### [ Archived at http://www.geocities.com/WilfredGuerin/ -- check for updates...]

#### A further analysis of reality, complete with a discussion of layers of false beliefs...  

- 1: You think al-qaida is trying to get you, that they are an autonomous terrorist organization, completely self sustained.  
- 2: You realize that the al-qaida is a US federal government compliant front operation, similar to hamas or others, designed and operated entirely to generate a false enemy in order to exploit and manipulate the common public.  
- 3: You realize that not only is this al-qaida a frrontt for a usg/.il based manipulation, it is also completely compliant and an extension of certain subdivisions of the us federal government and its affiliates.  
- 4: You realize that regardless of the existance of al-qaida, there are sub facets and sects within the numerous government organizations and corporate realms. You realize that these sub operations are independantly motivated than the government as a whole, such as the Bush/Carlyle/Oil/Defense consortium, or the DEA/Cia/Media/Mob consortium, or the many other independant sub sectors.  
- 5: You realize that any major operation is composed of individuals, regardless of their positions and purpose therein. You realize that each individual may have his own personal viewpoints, beliefs, motivations, and affiliations.  
- 6: You begin to realize that the plethra of independantly operative organizations on this continent are extensive, and that most operations infiltrate and overlap with others.  
- 7: Conceptually, at least, you see how various organized operations, such as a foreign intelligence service, a mafia/mob type operation, a media operation, a corporate operation, a federal government entity, a religious entity, or otherwise, could easily overlap and encompass the same individuals as another.  
- 8: Understanding that there is no pure operation whatsoever on this continent, you start to understand the complexities of mass scale operations and such topics as corporate espianage, reconaissance and intelligence gathering, and informants/moles/etc.  
- 9: You realize that an entity that provides tellecommunications resources to another might somehow embed a spying tool to report to their own intel operations the engagements of another. You realize that individuals may voluntarily report on the operations of a corporate, social, or individual entity. You realize that various technologies produced by another may also be easily compromised by yet another. You realize that humans, individuals, are involved in every aspect of this reality.  
- 10: You comprehend that not only are publicly-known reconaissance and information gathering systems implemented and exploited by all types of operations, you also realize that in over 100 years of technology development and research, at least SOME basic technology exists that you cant find in your textbooks.  
- 11: Knowing that a large majority of affiliates with various intell operations proactively report on things they see, no less a majority of them constantly carry automated reconaissance devices which conttinually broadcast their surroundings to a ccentral clearinghouse for information analysis; you understand that anyone from Turner's intel division to the CIA and DEA to all of the mafia operations to BMG music and Disney, no less the more significant players, all have thousands of operatives who constantly report to their central operations anything and everything they see or hear.  
- 12: You notice that each of them carry a reconaissance device with up to a 1,000x amplification capacity, most earpieces and other primitive technology can easily accomplish a 100x amplification for audio signals. A device embedded in a cell phone, or listening to a cell phone, can easily pick up 10x more than you can hear. More advanced recon specific devices can be placed anywhere, are microscopic in size, and have at least a few hundred times better reception than a human ear.  
- 13: Knowing that there is guaranteed to be some listening device in your proximity anywhere you go and amongst anything you do, no less devices in the technology and communications sectors, even moreso the devices remotely controlled, you also realize that not only the governing party can hear what the device hears, but that all other parties also can tap into every signal from every device. Everyone hears Everything.  
- 14: Realizing this, and applying basic logic, you understand that advanced remote reconaissance and related technologies have been utilized enmasse since the early 1970's, not to mention the inductive communications devices used for communications by the OSS and cia/etc since the 1930's, plus anything and eveerything that any research operation on the planet has ever come up with, you realize that absolutely nothing can be assumed to be not heard, seen, or known by everyone.  
- 15: Realizing that operational secrecy is an imaginary concept, and that all parties are capable of knowing all things, you understand that basic corporate espianoge is merely who or what can design something most effectively and then get it out fastest. In the basic intellectual sector, its merely who creates what and does something about it. You also realize that within every development environment is at least one individual who has multiple afffiliations, most likely either a media corporation's tap or a mafia affiliation, and within any standard office or practical environment, at least one reports to the USG another to a religious cover operation, and numerous to one of the more prominant intel gathering operations, like the media, mob, or a foreign nation.  
- 16: You realize that you've been lied to... Everything anyone in an established position or operation has told you in your development and introduction to topics has been a false front, lie, or manipulation. Noone is pure, and noone is without either a listening party or a party who gains insight from them.  
- 17:  
- 18:  
- 19:  
- 20: You understand that  not only are you bad, because you report to all the hostile entities anything that your operation is doing, everyone else is doing the same thing. You comprehend that there is a major problem with this, not only on the ethical level, but also in the operational capability of any human-run organization on the planet. You realize that the best option is to remove all those people who are hostile to humanity from interfering with human development, mainly by their suppression and manipulation, and that there is no place for people who intentionally manipulate others for their personal gains control and ego.  
- 21: Regardless of the ethical issues, you know that even though all parties know everything about everything, the parties who are most proficient in establishing their operation are those who will succeed. In a context of control and governance of operations, the organization that most effectively establishes operational success is the one who controls the environment or context.  
- 22: You comprehend that since most egocentric and manipulative people in positions of power will do anything at any cost to establish themselves in a position of purported worth and control, the methods and conditions required to establish control by use of an organization will be life threatening and sacrificial, no less detrimental to humanity in whole. They will use, manipulate, and exploit you, their supporter, simply to gain control and whatnot, no less physically sacrificing you for their illegitimate motivations.  
- 23: You comprehend that any support of a bad person will lead to equivalent support by others of other bad people, and since in their minds only one operation can be on top, 99% of all people supporting a suppressive and egocentric operation or individual will be whiped out.  
- 24: Understanding that all enties currently in power or in positions of authority are both a: compromised b: illegitimately motivated, you understand that to further support them is catestrophic for your life expectancy and future.  
- 25: You realize that every organized entity is infiltrated by every other organized entity, all of which are dependant on evil people or systems for their governance. You understand that any attempt to remove yourself from one by depending on the suggestions of others not only will lead you to the affiliates of the other individuals, but will also identify you as both a threat to one operation and a potential target for another. You determine that no organized affiliations are appropriate for an individual.  
- 50: You realize that behind every organization or entity or cover or front is another entity of some type. At some point, someone has a superior technology and understanding of reality. At another point, you end up at the start entity. Within each is the potential for a legitimate individual to exist.  
- 51: You understand that even at the uppermost and most supperior level of operations, someone, somewhere, is legitimate. Hopefully, at the top levels, the people comprehend reality, and are NOT power and ego driven. If this is the case, possibly, using the technology and information that you provide to all others, and that all others provide to all others, they would be capable of designing systems to assist in the comprehensive comprehension of reality as a whole. They would also be able to eliminate evil people from ever getting to that level of oversight or resources.  
- 52: You understand that because only legitimate or well-though-through and stable people control the epitome of advanced technology, someone there would find it appropriate to utilize such advanced systems for rescuing humanity from the evil people.  
- 53:  
- 55: Given that said upper levels, with their antagonistic peers, all control the most supperior technology and resouces, you can assume that the systems employed by said entities are capable of identifying and providing mechanism of extermination for bad people.  
- 56: If all technology ever developed was somehow deposited with some entity or organization, and some other operation listening within knows of it, it can be assumed that the upper levels know everything about everything. There is nothing that is not known to these operations as a consortium.  
- 60: You understand that you will never be in the proximity of such an entity as referenced from Level 50 above.  
- 61: You understand that they are aware of you, especially if you are  partaking in bad things or proactively doing good things or just doing neutrality.  
- 62: You understand that there is no tolerance for evil or evil pursuits, and those entities and individuals who engage anything illegitimate are well documented and ranked in numerous analytical facets.  
- 63: You realize that it is illogical to attempt to further oneself by ascending illegitimate heirchies, guaranteed corruption is undesirable, and it merely furthers the illegitimate pursuit of those already established in said heirchies.  
- 64: You understand that there is no legitimate organization or entity whatsoever that you can affiliate that is not illegitimate. You realize that you yourself and your intrinsic value sytems are the only thing that are legitimate for you to pursue.  
- 65: You realize that the automated systems employed by the topmost level not only are supperior to all technologies available to you, but also are more capable than  anything that you can independantly come up with. You realize also that these automated systems are more than capable of determining who and what is good or bad or neutral, and thus also determine what to do about them.  
- 70: You understand that all parties vying to overthrow or overpower another are merely overpowering themselves, and that no entity will succeed in this task or pursuit for very long.  
- 75: You realize that in the end of this pattern, once everyone has comprehensively determined their own potentials, pursuits, and values/ethics, that someone or something will come through and eliminate all those who are not fit to persist.  
- 76: You realize that since this something knows everything that you may come up with to counter it, that any pursuit to counteract its intent is illogical, and that proactive goodness in your natural intrinsic and personal pursuit is the only appropriate option.  
- 77: You understand that to be proactively good is better than neutral and definitely not bad, and thus, given that the automated system is constantly analysing your performances and enagements, it will recognise if you determine that your best bet is to be good. It will also weigh your exhibited potential to be good versus your tendency to be bad, and determine if you were intentionally late in making a decision to falsely appear good.  
- 78:  
- 80: Knowing that what you have chosen to do is in the best interest of humanity as a whole, and you continue to do such, you will now realize that those around you are also intrinsicly good or capable of good, and thus the environment and situation will allow you to continue your pursuit of the betterment of humanity in the manner you feel intrinsicly motivated.  
- 81: You work proactively to assist the enhancement of humanity as a whole, mainly by the furtherance of your immediate surroundings, no less the pursuit of tools and their implementation that will assist in refining and optimizing that process.  
- 90: You begin to realize your intrinsic potentials completely, and are thus able to release yourself from any remaining suppressors or barriers to enlightement, mainly religious beliefs and false perceptions given to you by now exterminated illegitimate parties.  
- 100: You realize your true potential and intrinsic values and engage legitimate paths for your betterment and the betterment of everything around you. You look back and laugh that you actually needed this document to help you realise that everything you once knew and believed was a false manipulation given to you by malevolent and evil people. You understand that there is no legitimate use for suppression and manipulation, and that without evil and malevolent people there is no bounds to your ability to do that which is good. You will continue to do that which is good for the remainder of your existance. 
- 101: You understand that the only way this could have happened was for someone with good intents to realize that bad was overpowering good a hundred+ years ago and set up this system and infrastructure to facilitate the determination and removal of bad people from the positions capable of inhibiting and destroying humanity. You can thank them, assuming they were not removed already for becoming corrupt and bad due to their overwhelming power and control. Ideally, they would be. However now, with a proactive stance from all people, you realize that there may never again be a need for such illegitimate systems to be implemented. You must work to prohibit that which is detrimental to humanity as a whole. You are now free and liberated, because someone thought ahead to the potentials and required approach to reality and management of the population.  
