.TH gt5 1 "August 2007" "gt5 v1.4.0"
.SH NAME
gt5 \- a diff\-capable 'du\-browser'
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gt5
[ dir | file | dir file | file file2 ] [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gt5
reads the output of
.BR du ,
compares it with a du\-log saved by the last run,
converts it into HTML and opens the resulting file with a
.BR textbrowser .

If files are given on the commandline they are expected to be
(optionally
.IR gzip / bzip2 \-compressed)
logfiles of
.BR "du \-akx /some/dir" .
It is up to you to take care that the given directories/files represent
the same directory.
.I gt5
will show lots of new files if you don't. ;\-)
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-\-cut\-at float"
Files and directories that are below
.I float
percent of their parents are not shown.  Default is
.IR 0.1 ,
gt5 will accept values between 0.01 and 30.
.IP "\-\-diff\-dir directory"
Use
.I directory
instead of
.I ~/.gt5\-diffs/
to read/store du\-logs.
This switch is ignored if gt5 is only used with files.
.IP \-\-discard
Do not save the current state, in other words: be able to diff against the old
state again.  This feature is disabled if gt5 is only used with files.
.IP \-\-link\-files
Also insert links to files to access them from within gt5.  This can be very
handy if your browser is configured to handle the files MIME\-type correctly.
This feature is disabled if gt5 is only used with files.
.IP "\-\-max\-depth int"
Do not show anything below a depth of
.I int
directories. Default is
.IR 5
(also see
.B BUGS
below).
.IP "\-\-max\-lines int"
Only consider the
.I int
biggest files and directories within the output of
.IR du .
.IP \-\-no\-diffs
Use this if you are not interested in the history of the directories processed,
for example in /tmp.
.IP "\-\-save\-as file"
DEPRECATED, use
.B du \-akx
or
.B du \-ak
(see
.BR \-\-with\-mounts ),
save the output to a file and run gt5 against one (ore two) of these files
later.
.IP \-\-save\-state
Force saving current state, overwriting a previous
.IR \-\-discard .
(Some people seem to have gt5 aliased to
.IR "'gt5 \-\-discard'" .)
.IP \-\-with\-mounts
By default gt5 calls
.B du
with
.B \-akx
to ignore mounted filesystems. Use this to inspect mounted partitions too, i.e. call
.B du
with
.B \-ak
.SH HELPERS
If
.I gawk
or a
.I textbrowser
are missing and you want to install them into
.IR "~/bin " "(or " "/usr/local/bin " "if you have write access there), " gt5
comes with the following helpers:
.IP \-\-get\-gawk
Download, compile and install a copy of
.IR gawk .
.IP \-\-get\-links
Download, compile and install a copy of
.IR links .
.IP \-\-get\-links2
Download, compile and install a copy of
.IR links2 .
.IP \-\-get\-elinks
Download, compile and install a copy of
.IR elinks .
.SH TEXTBROWSERS
It is recommended to use
.IR "links " "with " gt5 .
Other textbrowsers are also possible but there are several
good reasons why links is given priority over the others:
.IP elinks:
links is
.I much
faster on startup/exit
.IP lynx:
does not honor a documents
.I coloring
.IP netrik:
no colors,
.I unfavourable cursor navigation
.IP retawq:
no colors,
.I can't
handle <a name>\-tags
.IP w3m:
.I unfavourable
handling of <a name>\-tag,
.I unfavourable cursor navigation
and no colors
.PP
Only
.IR links / links2 ", " "elinks " "and " lynx
are now considered usable (and also chosen in that order). See
.BR ENVIRONMENT / GT5_BROWSER
below.
.SH FILES
.I ~/.gt5.html
.RS
contains a copy of the last run
.RE
.I ~/.gt5\-diffs/
.RS
compressed du\-logs are stored here
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP GT5_BROWSER
force using a (specific) textbrowser
.IP GT5_CHARSET
force using a (specific) charset for HTML header instead of using
.I $LANG
.SH BUGS
Directories at depth
.B max\-depth
are not browsable and so look like files.
.SH AUTHOR
Thomas Sattler <gt5 at gmx dot net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR du (1),
.BR links (1),
.BR elinks (1),
.BR lynx (1)
